The theme for our program is
“The Women Proclaiming the Good News.”
Sadly, throughout human history
women have been subjected
to injustice, violence, and abuse.
Why is that?
The Bible explains.
In the latter part of Genesis 3:16,
notice what God says:
“Your longing will be for your husband,
and he will dominate you.”
When God said
that Adam would “dominate” his wife,
God was not indicating His approval
of the subjugation of woman by man.
He was simply foretelling
the sad consequences
of sin on the first couple.
So abuse of women
is a direct outcome
of the sinful nature of humans,
not of God’s will.
Right down to our day,
rarely have women been accorded
the dignity that God
wants them to receive.
However, Jehovah makes clear
in his Word, the Bible,
that women and men
have equal standing before him.
In fact, he indicated
that women would play a vital role
in the outworking of his purpose.
Our theme is based on Psalm 68:11.
Let’s read it:
“Jehovah gives the command;
the women proclaiming
the good news are a large army.”
Those words were inspired by God.
But what did the psalmist
have in mind when he penned them?
The context of Psalm 68
shows that David was praising
Jehovah as a God of saving acts.
From the time of their Exodus from Egypt,
the men of Israel often had to fight
against enemy nations.
With Jehovah’s help,
they defeated them.
And the entire nation would then rejoice
over the victory Jehovah had given them.
The first of the victory celebrations
recorded in the Bible
was at the time
that Jehovah gave his people
the victory over Pharaoh
and the Egyptians who were pursuing them.
Exodus 15:20, 21
tells what happened
after this miraculous victory:
“Then Miriam the prophetess,
Aaron’s sister,
“took a tambourine in her hand,
“and all the women followed her
with tambourines and with dances.
“Miriam sang in response to the men:
“‘Sing to Jehovah,
“‘for he has become highly exalted.
The horse and its rider
he has hurled into the sea.’”
Picture that scene.
There were
an estimated three million people
in the nation of Israel.
Imagine
—out of that large number,
“all the women” were dancing
and singing praises to Jehovah.
That was undoubtedly a large army!
What a great shout of praise
to Jehovah that was!
Another example was
when King Saul and his general David
returned from victory over the Philistines.
Let’s read the account
at 1 Samuel 18:6.
“When David and the others would return
“from striking down the Philistines,
“the women would come out
“from all the cities of Israel
“with song and dances to meet King Saul
“with tambourines,
with rejoicing, and with lutes.”
Notice that the account says
that the women came out of “all the cities”
to greet them with music, song, and dance.
Occasions such as these
were not simply expressions of rejoicing
that originated with human emotion.
Recall that under inspiration, David said:
“Jehovah gives the command;
the women proclaiming
the good news are a large army.”
Yes, and Jehovah valued
their expressions of praise,
just as he valued the contributions
of the men who had engaged in battle.
What about today?
The report for the 2017 service year
shows that there were
over 8.3 million publishers
proclaiming the good news
throughout the earth.
Keep in mind that in most lands,
it is not unusual for our dear sisters
to make up over half
of our special pioneers
and nearly three quarters of those
who serve in the regular pioneer work.
In addition, many other sisters
are wholeheartedly spreading
the good news of the Kingdom
to the best of their ability
within their circumstances.
There are many single-parent families
where our sisters
are providing materially
and spiritually for their children.
Many of our faithful single sisters
are expending themselves
in Jehovah’s service
in theocratic construction
and maintenance work,
Bethel service,
and serving where the need is greater
—which includes
serving in foreign-language fields.
Faithful wives
loyally support their husbands
as well as fulfill their own roles
as preachers and teachers.
Yes, how Jehovah must be pleased
to see all of you
who serve in various ways!
And we’re grateful
for the warm spirit and positive influence
our dear sisters have on our congregations.
Clearly,
Jehovah values
this “large army” of sisters.
But does he take note
of the individual circumstances
and sacrifices of each sister?
We do not have to wonder.
By means of his Word,
Jehovah makes it evident that he sees
and appreciates each of his servants.
For example,
did you notice when we read
the scripture in Exodus chapter 15
that Miriam was described
as a “prophetess”?
Evidently,
she was privileged to be used
as an instrument
of divine communication.
In some instances,
this no doubt included singing songs
that were inspired by Jehovah.
Miriam was not the only one
in the Scriptures with this designation.
Other women in the Bible record,
such as Anna and Isaiah’s wife,
were also spoken of as prophetesses.
In the book of Judges,
another faithful servant,
Deborah, is identified.
Let’s read Judges 4:4, 5:
“Now Deborah, a prophetess,
“the wife of Lappidoth,
“was judging Israel at that time.
“She used to sit under Deborah’s palm tree
“between Ramah and Bethel
“in the mountainous region of Ephraim;
the Israelites
would go up to her for judgment.”
Evidently,
Deborah was assigned to settle
disputes that arose among Israelites
by giving Jehovah’s answer
to problems that came up.
Much later in Israel’s history,
during the reign of faithful King Josiah,
Huldah served as a prophetess.
At 2 Kings 22:8,
we read that while the temple
was being repaired,
the original book of the Law was found.
When it was read to Josiah,
he was distraught at seeing how far off
the nation had strayed from Jehovah’s Law.
In verse 13,
he directed the priest, the secretary,
and other influential men:
“Go, inquire of Jehovah in my behalf,
“in behalf of the people,
“and in behalf of all Judah
concerning the words of this book
that has been found.”
How did they accomplish this?
Verse 14 continues:
“So Hilkiah the priest,
“Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah
went to Huldah the prophetess.”
It’s interesting that Jehovah
used this faithful woman
to convey his direction
and that prominent men and priests
sought her divinely inspired advice.
The Christian Greek Scriptures, however,
do not permit sisters
to serve in such a capacity
as did Deborah
and other prophetesses
in the nation of Israel.
However,
Titus 2:3, 4
encourages “older women”
to display spiritual qualities,
“so that they may advise
the younger women”
in spiritual matters.
Let’s read those verses:
“Likewise, let the older women
be reverent in behavior,
“not slanderous,
not enslaved to a lot of wine,
“teachers of what is good,
“so that they may advise
the younger women
to love their husbands,
to love their children.”
How we appreciate
the spiritually mature sisters among us
who provide
such fine assistance to younger sisters
or those who are newer in the truth!
However, today Jehovah
has delegated authority to men.
They Scripturally qualify
to serve as elders and ministerial servants
in order to serve, guide,
and protect his people.
It is obvious that this is not due
to a lack of respect
for the gifts of our sisters
in the congregation.
In fact,
many responsible brothers will acknowledge
that they have benefited
from the experience
and practical wisdom
of our humble, spiritually mature sisters.
Finally,
think of the outstanding faith
of another woman
mentioned in the Bible, Mary.
What an awesome responsibility
Jehovah entrusted her with
—bearing and raising
his own Son as a human!
We can only imagine the thoughts
that were going through her mind
when she was told of this assignment.
But the account in Luke chapter 1
tells us much about her spirituality.
In verse 38,
after the angel Gabriel
finished speaking with her,
Mary’s response was simply:
“Look! Jehovah’s slave girl!
May it happen to me
according to your declaration.”
She must have wondered
how Jehovah would accomplish these things,
but she was humble and obedient.
Faithful men such as Moses
and Jeremiah hesitated
when given
a challenging assignment from God.
Not Mary!
What a beautiful example
she set for all of us
—men and women!
Clearly,
Jehovah has always highly valued women.
And we are privileged to serve today
with millions of hardworking sisters.
How pleased Jehovah must be
to see dear sisters
serving him humbly and faithfully!
We urge you sisters,
please keep up your good work
and continue to be
a positive influence in the congregation.
God has indeed granted
you faithful women
the privilege of participating
in the fulfillment of the psalmist’s words:
“Jehovah gives the command;
the women proclaiming
the good news are a large army.”